README.md, before:

## Quantified

Quantified is a small REST-API I use to collect data about my daily habits. My current plans are to grow this in to a major backend that enables me to collect a broad variety of data. I want to be able to collect the data manually via web/apps/etc. (consumed coffee, workouts, events, measurements, etc.) and automatically via Arduino.

Accordingly I plan to develop several auxiliary applications that allow me to collect data conveniently and to learn new technologies.

This project is at a very early stage and might change considerably! This README is also used as a dump for my thoughts, to-dos, etc. concerning this project.

### Installation

Set a DEVISE_SECRET_KEY env variable. This project uses [figaro](https://github.com/laserlemon/figaro). See the `config/application.yml.example` file.

Right now this is a very basic Ruby on Rails app that should be easy enough to deploy.

### Endpoints

#### Authentication

#### Scope

Scopes are like categories and can be used to group events & measurements. Right now I use Scopes like "Body" (measurements, workouts, etc.), "Household" (finances, temperatures, gas price, etc.) and "Nutrition" (cups of coffee, )

##### Attributes

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| name | string | The name of the scope. |

##### Methods

- **`GET`** `/scopes.json`

  Returns a list of Scopes.

- **`POST`** `/scopes.json`

  Creates a new Scope.

- **`PATCH/PUT`** `/scopes/:id.json`

  Updates an existing Scope.

- **`DELETE`** `/scopes/:id.json`

  Deletes an existing Scope and **all** of its attached EventTypes, Events, StateTypes and States.

#### EventType

This is only a stub so far, it will evolve into something more concrete and validateable.

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| name | string | The name of the scope. |
| scope_id | integer | ID of the scope this event might take place in. |

##### Methods

- **`GET`** `/event_types.json`
- **`POST`** `/event_types.json`
- **`PATCH/PUT`** `/event_types/:id.json`
- **`DELETE`** `/event_types/:id.json`

#### Event

This is only a stub so far, it will evolve into something more concrete and validateable.

This defines a discrete event at a specific point in time.

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| data | text (serialized Array) | Information about the event (amount, unit of measure, etc.) |

##### Methods

- **`GET`** `/events.json`
- **`POST`** `/events.json`
- **`PATCH/PUT`** `/events/:id.json`
- **`DELETE`** `/events/:id.json`

#### StateType

This does not exist right now.

Analogous to EventTypes this defines types of States and their attributes. This includes amount and unit of measure.

#### State

This does not exist right now.

Analogous to Events this represents one concrete state of something in time (CO<sub>2</sub> in the bed room, temperatures, etc.).

### cURL Examples

#### Create a new scope

    curl -u test@test.com:test1234 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"scope": {"name": "Scope name"}}' http://localhost:3000/scopes.json

#### Update an existing scope

    curl -u test@test.com:test1234 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"scope": {"name": "New scope name"}}' http://localhost:3000/scopes/1.json

### To-Do & Food for Thought

 - [ ] Authorization
 - [ ] Deploy to Heroku
 - [ ] States
 - [ ] Flesh out EventTypes, so they can be used to validate submitted Events
 - [ ] EventTypes might not be bound to a scope an probably could be reused?
 - [ ] Events, States: Use `created_at` as the point in time or introduce another field?
 - [ ] Maybe it's not necessary to have events as a sub-route of
 - [ ] Destroy methods
 - [ ] What about things that can't be measured continuously, like mood, pain, etc.
 - [ ] What kind of units do we allow? Should we automatically store & convert on the fly different units (metric vs imperial)?
 - [ ] Events are defined by EventTypes and might include: photo, amount, measure
 - [ ] Publish Events & State changes via Redis pub/sub
 - [ ] After the vision for the API gets clearer: Tests!

### License & Copyright

Copyright (c) 2015 Christoph Edthofer

This software may be modified and distributed under the terms of the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Adds authentication via access tokens.

README.md, after:

## Quantified

Quantified is a small REST-API I use to collect data about my daily habits. My current plans are to grow this in to a major backend that enables me to collect a broad variety of data. I want to be able to collect the data manually via web/apps/etc. (consumed coffee, workouts, events, measurements, etc.) and automatically via Arduino.

Accordingly I plan to develop several auxiliary applications that allow me to collect data conveniently and to learn new technologies.

This project is at a very early stage and might change considerably! This README is also used as a dump for my thoughts, to-dos, etc. concerning this project.

### Installation

Set a DEVISE_SECRET_KEY env variable. This project uses [figaro](https://github.com/laserlemon/figaro). See the `config/application.yml.example` file.

Right now this is a very basic Ruby on Rails app that should be easy enough to deploy.

### Endpoints

#### Authentication

While it is possible to authenticate the users with HTTP basic auth, it is recommended to generate an access token for every app that uses the API.

You can generate a new access token with **`POST`** to `/access_tokens.json`:

    curl -u test@test.com:test1234 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '' http://localhost:3000/access_tokens.json

This will return a response like this:

    {
      "id":1,
      "token":"XYZ"
    }

All subsequent requests can be authenticated with an `Access-Token` field in the header:

    curl -H "Content-Type: application/json; Access-Token: XYZ" http://localhost:3000/scopes.json

To invalidate a token, you can simply delete it with **`DELETE`** `/access_tokens/XYZ.json`

#### Scope

Scopes are like categories and can be used to group events & measurements. Right now I use Scopes like "Body" (measurements, workouts, etc.), "Household" (finances, temperatures, gas price, etc.) and "Nutrition" (cups of coffee, )

##### Attributes

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| name | string | The name of the scope. |

##### Methods

- **`GET`** `/scopes.json`

  Returns a list of Scopes.

- **`POST`** `/scopes.json`

  Creates a new Scope.

- **`PATCH/PUT`** `/scopes/:id.json`

  Updates an existing Scope.

- **`DELETE`** `/scopes/:id.json`

  Deletes an existing Scope and **all** of its attached EventTypes, Events, StateTypes and States.

#### EventType

This is only a stub so far, it will evolve into something more concrete and validateable.

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| name | string | The name of the scope. |
| scope_id | integer | ID of the scope this event might take place in. |

##### Methods

- **`GET`** `/event_types.json`
- **`POST`** `/event_types.json`
- **`PATCH/PUT`** `/event_types/:id.json`
- **`DELETE`** `/event_types/:id.json`

#### Event

This is only a stub so far, it will evolve into something more concrete and validateable.

This defines a discrete event at a specific point in time.

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| data | text (serialized Array) | Information about the event (amount, unit of measure, etc.) |

##### Methods

- **`GET`** `/events.json`
- **`POST`** `/events.json`
- **`PATCH/PUT`** `/events/:id.json`
- **`DELETE`** `/events/:id.json`

#### StateType

This does not exist right now.

Analogous to EventTypes this defines types of States and their attributes. This includes amount and unit of measure.

#### State

This does not exist right now.

Analogous to Events this represents one concrete state of something in time (CO<sub>2</sub> in the bed room, temperatures, etc.).

### cURL Examples

#### Create a new scope

    curl -u test@test.com:test1234 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"scope": {"name": "Scope name"}}' http://localhost:3000/scopes.json

#### Update an existing scope

    curl -u test@test.com:test1234 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"scope": {"name": "New scope name"}}' http://localhost:3000/scopes/1.json

### To-Do & Food for Thought

 - [x] Authorization
 - [ ] Deploy to Heroku
 - [ ] States
 - [ ] Flesh out EventTypes, so they can be used to validate submitted Events
 - [ ] EventTypes might not be bound to a scope an probably could be reused?
 - [ ] Events, States: Use `created_at` as the point in time or introduce another field?
 - [ ] Maybe it's not necessary to have events as a sub-route of
 - [ ] Destroy methods
 - [ ] What about things that can't be measured continuously, like mood, pain, etc.
 - [ ] What kind of units do we allow? Should we automatically store & convert on the fly different units (metric vs imperial)?
 - [ ] Events are defined by EventTypes and might include: photo, amount, measure
 - [ ] Publish Events & State changes via Redis pub/sub
 - [ ] After the vision for the API gets clearer: Tests!

### License & Copyright

Copyright (c) 2015 Christoph Edthofer

This software may be modified and distributed under the terms of the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for details.
